.TH RMQ 8l "07 February r1.25
.SH NAME
.B rmq
- checks the mail queue on a remote server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrmq \fR[\fB-c \fI<config>\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-V\fR] <\fIclientid\fB>
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B rmq
is a Bourne shell script which should work equally well on all versions of UNIX,
Linux and Mac OS X.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rmq
uses 
.B ssh
and 
.B sudo
where necessary to return a summary of the current mail queue on a remote
server.
The configuration file (\fI/usr/local/etc/rmq.cf\fR by default) is used to
determine the mail transfer agent on the remote host and relevant hostname
using the "\fIclient id\fR" supplied on the command line. If the configuration
file does not exist or there is no entry for the client id supplied,
.B rmq
will assume that "\fIclient id\fR" = "\fIhostname\fR".
.LP
The script assumes that trying to use root to probe remote systems will
lead to problems so attempts to run with an id less than 500 cause an
error and the script terminates.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B -c
.I <config_file>
Use the named configuration file in preference to the default 
"\fI/usr/local/etc/rmq.cf\fR".
.TP 5
\fB-d\fR
Start in debug mode.
The script will run in a shell with the 
.B -x
option set.
.TP 5
.B -l
The summary returned is logged using the local 
.B syslog
facility. This is particularly useful for compiling reports on the number
of checks made and facilitates calculation of the average queue length.
.TP 5
.B -v
Set verbose mode. Ordinarily 
.B rmq
operates silently unless problems are detected. In 
.I verbose
mode 
.B rmq
reports on each significant action and returns a list of items in the
queue.
.TP 5
.B -V
Print version details and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.ft CW
rmq -l  billpayers
.ft R
.LP
Using the client id  "\fIbillpayers\fR" as the look up key,
.B rmq
will extract the details of the remote host and mail transport agent
being used.
.SH FILES
.IR /usr/local/etc/rmq.cf
.SH BUGS
The script has more error checking than most but is still quite crude
having been developed to resolve specific client issues.
File permissions are critical and 
.B sudo
is be used execute commands where 
.B root
privileges are required.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR backup ,
.IR chkftpd ,
.IR chkfw ,
.IR chkup ,
.IR report ,
.IR rhost .
.SH AUTHOR
Clifford W Fulford, City Linux. Contact fulford@fulford.net or +44 (0)709 229 5385.
